Java :
Describe the immutable aspects of Strings in Java. 
Describe the different types of Memory Areas in the JVM & what is the use of each. 
How is session tracking done in a Servlets based application? 
What is final keyword in java? 
Can we declare private variables in interface? 
What is exception handling and explain about checked and unchecked exceptions? 
What is Multithreading? 
How HashMap works internally? 
Why String is immutable? 
How memory management works in Java? 
Singleton 
Explain exception handling in Java and what is try with resource? 
AutoClosable and Closeable intefaces in try with resource. 

Spring:
What is Dependency Injection & explain the different injection mechanism? 
Spring IOC (How to configure beans), bean scope 
How spring boot works? 
What Java based configurations in Spring Boot have you used. How will you define them? 
You have a Data Access Layer. How do you interface & configure with your database from your Spring Boot application? 
What is the difference between Spring and SpringBoot ? 
How to configure the Filter for specified controller ? 
How dispatcher servlet configuration root the request to required controller (Request Flow from Postman to Controller)?  
What is JDBC template? 
Which all annotations required in spring boot crud operation process? 
Spring Lifecyle 
Explain about dispatcher servlet 
Spring Scopes 
How to connect to database in spring and execute query 
What is the advantage of using spring framework? 
What are all the Http methods and how do you secure the data 
Spring annotations      
Difference between @Controller and @RestController 
Hibernate configuration 
about pom.xml file in maven. How to change the version of the jars 
How database connectivity happens in Spring boot. 
Does each microservice connects to separate database? 
What are difference annotations being used in spring boot. 
What is JWT. What happens if we send JWT token as part of URL. 
Difference between @Component / @Bean / @Service 
@Scope usage and different types of bean scopes. 
 

Spring Security: 
What Spring Security implementations have you worked on & explain the implementation context. 
How authentication and authorization works? 
Which class needs to be extended at the time of doing authorization? 
Explain all the annotation used in authentication and authorization process? 
How Spring security filter chain works? 
How request will be forwarded to controller after JWT verification? 
Configure method usage in Spring Security 
 

Rest: 
What is Rest template ? 
How you will secure your request while sending from API testing tool to server ? 
Which HTTP request methods are supported by REST ? 
What is caching in the REST API? 
How do you keep REST APIs secure? 
While implementing REST API authentication what are the different classes that you made use of & explain its use. 
How to handle exceptions in Rest service 
soap vs rest 
Rest security (how to secure rest application) 


5.	What is a Lambda expression? 
6.	Interface with default methods
7.	Explain Executor Framework, Multi-threading in Java 8
8.	Explain String Immutability?
9.	How will make a class immutable? 
 Ans: Should not be able to edit the value inside the object. Make the     setter methods as private and override the constructors.
10.	Sorting a list of Employee records using Lastname and DOB - use a single Comparator
Answer: implement compare() with Lastname and then DOB in one method
11.	What is the difference between a Comparator and a Comparable?
12.	Java program to check whether a string is a Palindrome
13.	Spring: Scopes for a bean in Spring - Singleton(default), Request, etc
14.	Talk about REST and SOAP APIs implementation experience.
15.	CRUD operations using REST APIs? - GET, POST, PUT
16.	How will you handle error scenarios in REST APIs?
17.	Controller Advice option for Global Error Handling - how do you do it?
18.	AOP concept implementation? - Logging
19.	What is the most complicated thing that you have worked on in Spring?
20.	Any experience in MQ, JMS or Kafka?
21.	Have you consumed any services? How will you do that?
22.	What tools have you used for Log analysis - Splunk, Kibana, or manual analysis

